Welcome to this lecture on rhythm,
stress, and pausing.
Now, by the end of this video,
you will be able to use rhythm,
stress, and pausing to persuade.
English is a very rhythmic language.
How you place stress and
pausing can enhance and
greatly affect your
communication with others.
In the context of speaking persuasively,
placing stress on
the wrong word can make others miss
your main point, or your main argument.
Or worse, they can completely
misunderstand what you're trying to say.
So it is important that you
understand the needs and
the effects of stress and
pausing in your speech.
Let's first look at how stressing works.
In sentences, certain words
receive more stress than others.
We normally stress the main
meaningful words of the sentence,
which we call content words.
Content words are nouns, verbs,
adjectives, and adverbs.
We do not normally stress less
important words, like pronouns or
prepositions, which we
call function words.
I say normally, because it can happen.
I'm going to speak a very
short sentence for you, and
then ask you to identify
which word is stressed.
To give you some context, let's
pretend I'm shopping for a puppy, and
I want to agree with a friend that
I think a particular puppy is cute.
Here's the sentence.
She is cute.
I'll repeat it one more time.
Can you hear the word I'm stressing?
Take a look at the three
examples on the screen.
Which sentence shows
the stress word in my example?
The correct answer is the second sentence.
I placed stress on the verb to
show that I agree with my friend.
Remember, changing the stress
on content words and
function words in a sentence
can change the meaning, and
it can also emphasize a main
point that you're trying to make.
Listen to these three examples.
Our product has brought joy to
millions of people in Asia.
As we just talked about, stress highlights
key words for a listener's attention.
We often pause slightly before a strongly
stressed word to had emphasis or emotion.
Let's take a look at this sentence.
Where do you think
the pausing should occur?
Try reading it out loud.
Here's how I would say the sentence.
Their product is well designed but
it is too expensive.
Did you notice where I paused?
I paused after the word designed.
I did this because I wanted to emphasize
the contrast between the ideas
that I think it is a well designed
product, but it is expensive.
The word but already does this,
but by placing a slight
pause between the two phrases,
I'm placing more emphasis on the contrast.
Here, let me repeat.
Their product is well designed,
but it is too expensive.
To sum up, stressing places of emphasis
on the meaning of the stress word,
while pausing breaks the sentences
into chunks of meaning.
Apart from that, pausing also is used to
strongly stress a word and add emphasis.
Go ahead,
practice using stress and pausing.
Listen to speeches by native speakers.
TED Talks is an excellent
place to watch videos.
Pay attention to how people
pause in between words, and
also how they also place
stress on certain words.
You'll notice that pausing quite often is
not a grammatical point in the sentence.
What I mean by that is, they don't
pause where there's always a comma or
a full stop.
Sometimes they place pauses in between
certain chunks of meaning in a text.
So watch people.
Pay attention how they use pausing to
draw your attention to certain points.
And also pay attention to how
they stress certain words.
How they make use of that
stress to persuade you,
to make you focus on a main
point that you're trying to say.
Thanks for watching.